https://epaper.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202306/09/WS64824e48a3106e73106c44f2.html
	2023-06-09 00:00
	Europe prefers to remain neutral in case of China-US conflict, poll finds
    
    Most Europeans want their countries to remain neutral in a conflict between the United States and China over China's Taiwan region, while they also want to reduce the continent's military dependence on the US, according to a survey report released on Wednesday by the European Council on Foreign Relations.
    On average, only 23 percent of the respondents would like their country, or Europe, to take the US' side if a hypothetical conflict broke out between the US and China over the Taiwan island, and a clear majority of 62 percent want their country to remain neutral, according to the public opinion poll conducted in April among 16,168 adults in 11 European Union member states.
    The poll also showed that 74 percent of the respondents — compared with 66 percent in the ECFR's 2020 survey — believe that Europe cannot always rely on the US and needs its own defense capabilities.
    Around 43 percent of the respondents described China as "a necessary partner, with which we must strategically cooperate", while 24 percent called China "a rival, with which we need to compete". For 11 percent of the respondents, China is as "an adversary, with which we are in conflict".
    Only 5 percent of the respondents said that Europe's trade and investment relationship with China is "mostly risks" and 16 percent called it "more risks than benefits", while 63 percent described it as "as many risks as benefits", "more benefits than risks" and "mostly benefits".
    Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said at a regular news briefing on Thursday that the opinion poll shows that China and the EU are partners, not competitors.
    China-EU relations are rooted in a solid public opinion foundation, broad common interests and similar strategic demands, Wang said, underscoring that the ties have withstood tests and now enjoy strong resilience and potential.
    China is willing to work with the EU to consolidate the good momentum of development in their relations, resume in-person interactions at various levels and activate mutually beneficial cooperation in all fields, Wang said.
    This will help expand China-EU cooperation, and provide more certainty and stability for the complicated international situation, he added.
    Jana Puglierin and Pawel Zerka, both senior policy fellow at the ECFR and authors of the survey report, said that when thinking about China, "Europeans do not appear to link it to Europe's experience of its dependence on Russia and the resulting energy crisis in the continent".
    "The prevailing view in almost every country included in our survey is that the risks and benefits of Europe's trade and investment relationship with China are balanced," they wrote. "Bulgarians even consider the benefits to outweigh the risks. In no country did most respondents consider Europe's trade with China to entail more risks than benefits."
    "In many ways, European citizens are more on Team Macron than Team von der Leyen, and they do not see China as a power that challenges and wants to undermine Europe," the authors wrote, clearly referring to French President Emmanuel Macron's comment in April during his trip to China that the EU should avoid becoming "a vassal state" of Washington, especially in terms of a potential conflict over Taiwan.
    European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, who went to China with Macron in April, is widely viewed among Europeans as a pro-US leader.
    EU citizens have displayed considerable caution about the practical aspects of China's economic presence in Europe, according to the report. "On average, a majority would oppose allowing Chinese companies to own infrastructure in Europe, as well as to buy a European newspaper or technology company," it said.
    Arancha Gonzalez, dean of Paris School of International Affairs, said the survey shows that EU citizens want to be firm on Russia, nuanced on China and realistic about the US. "Citizens want Europe to be an actor in the world," she tweeted on Wednesday.
    The survey report was released ahead of an EU summit later this month, when the EU's China policy will be a key topic for leaders of the 27 member states.
    
