https://epaper.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202306/09/WS6482508fa3106e73106c4510.html
	2023-06-09 00:00
	Game that shows prosperity and happiness
    
    The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs and the General Administration of Sport has issued a notification announcing the organization of the National Beautiful Countryside Basketball Tournament, also called Village BA, or VBA.
    In March, media outlets across China reported the VBA event in Guizhou province, generating even more excitement than the professional Chinese Basketball Association matches.
    The participants were all village residents who had returned from the fields or from their migrant work in the cities to take part in the tournament. The prizes given were local agricultural produce, such as pork.
    The VBA in Guizhou apart, the rural football league has also created waves. Both basketball and football have arrived in a big way with audiences in China. Although the star players of the VBA are no match to professionals in the CBA and the NBA, people appreciate the VBA more for the dedication and joy displayed on the court.
    Besides, investigations into cases of corruption in Chinese football have exposed the hurdles toward the professionalization of Chinese football. Although the CBA has a better reputation, there have still been reports of "collusion on the court" this year. In comparison, the VBA, with no corruption cases, has a freshness to it.
    If we look strictly at the sports aspect, we will be deviating from the true essence of the VBA, which showcases the richness of rural life.
    Over the past two decades, a large number of rural youth have migrated to cities for work, which has brought substantial income and new ideas to the countryside but has also hollowed out rural areas.
    During a basketball game in a village, there are not just the athletes competing on the field but a large number of rural spectators enjoying the match, which is a sight to behold. This lively atmosphere of people enjoying economic development in a rural setting is what adds to the beauty.
    BEIJING NEWS
