	Greater China-Kazakhstan ties set to produce fruitful results
	2023-05-19 00:00
    
    Economic and trade ties between China and Kazakhstan will continue to expand in the years ahead, thanks to joint efforts to improve regional connectivity and launch new projects in areas like energy development, logistics and agriculture, said market watchers and business leaders.
    They said that the two countries, amid increasing pressure on the global economy, have not only helped to ensure the stability of Eurasian production cooperation and the smooth operation of the China-Europe freight train service but also effectively addressed global energy security challenges.
    With improved connectivity projects such as the Trans-Caspian International Transport Route and new railway express services, China and Kazakhstan still have room to further strengthen the docking of their development strategies, and expand new areas for cooperation, especially in the fields of 5G, big data, digital finance, cross-border e-commerce and green energy, said Zhou Lei, a researcher specializing in regional economic development at the University of International Business and Economics in Beijing.
    The Trans-Caspian International Transport Route is a rail freight corridor linking China and the European Union through Central Asia, the Caucasus, Turkiye, and Eastern Europe, according to Tokyo-based Asian Development Bank Institute.
    "The enhanced rail and road transportation networks between China and Kazakhstan will bring up a win-win situation as China has huge demand for imports from the Central Asian country. It will boost the job market and industrial upgrading in Kazakhstan," said Tian Dewen, deputy director of the Institute of Russian, Eastern European and Central Asian Studies at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences in Beijing.
    Central Asia, especially Kazakhstan, has served as a key gateway on the western route for China-Europe freight train services.
    Thanks to their complementary trade structure, China and Kazakhstan saw their foreign trade value jump 23.6 percent on a yearly basis to $31.17 billion in 2022, while China's imports from Kazakhstan surged 31.1 percent year-on-year, data from the General Administration of Customs showed.
    Bilateral trade soared 26.8 percent from the same period in 2022 to $8.23 billion in the first quarter of this year.
    Hu Biliang, executive dean of the Belt and Road School at Beijing Normal University, said China and Kazakhstan, among the first countries to jointly pursue cooperation in terms of the Belt and Road Initiative, have implemented a series of projects with strategic significance, bringing benefits to their peoples and setting a convincing example for the international community.
    China National Chemical Engineering Corp announced in January that it completed an integrated petrochemicals complex and infrastructure project in the Atyrau region, western Kazakhstan, in November 2022.
    This big-ticket project will be a pilot of the alignment of the Belt and Road Initiative and Kazakhstan's economic growth policies. It is Kazakhstan's largest chemical and the first polyolefin project, said Wu Xiangong, CNCEC's vice-president.
    As a key cooperation project between Kazakhstan and China, the complex will produce up to 500,000 metric tons of polypropylene per year, a raw material widely used in mechanical engineering, medicine and electrical engineering.
    Wu said it took the group nearly five years to complete the project's construction. It included design, purchase, and engineering as well as performance assessment of propane dehydrogenation-based propylene production and polypropylene production facilities.
    The Shelek Wind Farm in Kazakhstan, a key project of the Belt and Road Initiative, was also put into operation in September 2022.
    Jointly invested and built by Beijing-headquartered Power Construction Corp of China, or Power-China, and Samuk-Energy Joint Stock, Kazakhstan's largest state-owned energy development company, the wind farm is the first new energy project that PowerChina has invested in Central Asia.
    
    
    
    
