	Health companies band together to develop ecosystem of precision medicine
	2023-05-18 19:55
    Beijing Xisike Clinical Oncology Research Foundation, Ping An Health Insurance Company of China Ltd, together with OrigiMed Shanghai Ltd, announced their strategic collaboration agreement to develop an innovative ecosystem of precision medicine, aiming at providing Chinese patients with an innovative full-cycle medical solution for cancer treatment.
    Under the terms of the agreement, the three parties will jointly develop an innovative ecosystem of precision medicine to provide full-cycle medical service for insured Chinese patients. Ping An Health will provide comprehensive medical coverage by utilizing OrigiMed's precision medicine e-hospital service including comprehensive gene testing, online molecular tumor board, clinical trials, patient recruitment and follow-up services.
    Meanwhile, the CSCO foundation will leverage with its professional clinical oncologist network providing online personalized diagnosis and treatment services for Chinese patients.
    "The collaboration will enable better clinical outcomes for Chinese cancer patients," said Li Jin, chairman of CSCO Foundation and vice-chief supervisor of Chinese Society of Clinical Oncology.
    "We aim to provide Chinese patients with innovative products and services that meet all their healthcare needs. Patients in China deserve the high-quality medical service that enable them to make informed decisions about personalized precision medicine," said Zhu Yougang, chairman of Ping An Health.
    "Every cancer patient is unique, and we believe precision medicine contains great potential for cancer treatment in China," said Wang Kai, chairman of OrigiMed.
    Cancer has emerged as a leading cause of death in China, with a growing burden of cancer patients in recent years. Statistics from the National Cancer Center showed that there were over 4.5 million new cancer cases in China in 2020. Additionally, cancer-related medical expenses in China are estimated to exceed 220 billion yuan ($31.4 billion) annually.
