	Industrial supply chains and trade set to bring nations closer together
	2023-05-19 00:00
    
    China and Uzbekistan — two staunch advocates of multilateralism — are poised to boost two-way trade and enhance regional connectivity in the next phase of their partnership, stimulating high-quality growth in their business ties, said experts and business executives.
    In spite of the gloomy global outlook and international geopolitical tensions, they said promoting industrial and investment cooperation between the two countries will keep up with the general trend around the globe, promote economic transformation and pursue win-win development.
    Uzbekistan plays a key role in regional industrial and supply chains, and China has become the largest contributor to global economic growth, said Zhao Ping, vice-dean of the Beijing-based Academy of China Council for the Promotion of International Trade.
    Looking ahead, Zhao said China and Uzbekistan should push to accelerate industrial upgrading and transformation, create a better business environment and maintain stable and safe regional industrial and supply chains.
    "More efforts should also be made to develop next-generation information technologies, such as artificial intelligence, industrial internet, big data and the internet of things; accelerate the smart and green transformation of traditional industries and expand cooperation in the areas of trade, investment, cross-border e-commerce and transportation," said Zhang Yongjun, deputy chief economist at the Beijing-based China Center for International Economic Exchanges.
    Benefiting from the tangible growth of the Belt and Road Initiative and economic and trade activities, China and Uzbekistan saw their trade value soar 25.5 percent year-on-year to 65.13 billion yuan ($9.41 billion) in 2022, according to the China General Administration of Customs.
    Bilateral trade amounted to 16.88 billion yuan in the first quarter of 2023, up 7 percent on a yearly basis.
    With green development high on the Uzbek government's agenda, Zhengzhou Yutong Bus, a company based in Zhengzhou, Henan province, has been heading in that direction.
    It said it will supply 800 new energy buses to Tashkent, capital of Uzbekistan, this year.
    Yutong said that the order, which is composed of 300 electric buses and 500 compressed natural gas ones, is the largest of its kind from Uzbekistan for Chinese buses.
    Li Haifeng, a senior executive for Yutong's operations in the markets of the Commonwealth of Independent States, said Tashkent purchased 20 of Yutong's new energy buses in early 2022 after a two-year comparison of models from major bus makers around the world.
    The fleet, which has been in operation in Tashkent for more than a year, has won the approval of passengers and the city's bus service provider thanks to its safe, green and cost-efficient operation.
    Yutong said its global accumulative exports stand at around 86,000 buses, of which 68,000 were sold in countries involved in the Belt and Road Initiative.
    Eager to expand its presence in markets participating in the BRI, China Energy Engineering, a Beijing-headquartered State-owned enterprise, announced in March that it had begun to build a large-scale wind power project in Uzbekistan.
    Located in Bukhara Province, the Bash and Dzhankeldy wind power project is expected to have the largest installed capacity of its kind in Central Asia. It includes the construction of two 500-megawatt wind power plants and associated power export transmission lines.
    Taking full advantage of the rich wind resources in the region, the project is to provide more than 3.5 billion kilowatt-hours of power annually, representing a reduction of 1.6 million metric tons of carbon dioxide per year, said Xue Danfeng, deputy board chairman of Energy China's international group.
    Xue said that about 500 jobs will be created for local residents during the construction and operation of the project.
    Once operational, the project will benefit millions of people in Uzbekistan, strengthen local power supply capacity, improve the local power infrastructure and help transform energy infrastructure in the country, he added.
