https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202306/09/WS648300cfa31033ad3f7bb745.html
	2023-06-09 19:08
	Intl art show & forum highlights ICH protection in Shanghai
    Aiming to enhance the intangible cultural heritage protection (ICH) through global efforts, the 13th International Exhibition of Traditional Fine Arts was launched on Thursday morning at Shanghai Art Collection Museum, followed by the 11th International (Shanghai) Intangible Cultural Heritage Protection Forum held in the afternoon at Shanghai Art & Design Academy.
    Both events are held on the 20th anniversary of the adoption of the UNESCO Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage, the 10th anniversary of the Belt and Road Initiative, as well as the 18th China's Cultural and Natural Heritage Day.
    Themed around "All Rivers flow to the sea", the 13th International Exhibition of Traditional Fine Arts is set to open to the public for free from June 9. The month-long exhibition will showcase a wide range of exquisite artworks from both home and abroad. Highlight exhibits include Finnish glass art pieces designed by the renowned architect Alvar Aalto; contemporary Danish furniture featuring, traditional ethnic costumes from European countries; photography from South American nations; as well as traditional Chinese art pieces such as cloisonne, wood carving, embroidery, and lacquerware.
    This art show attracted a record high of over 150 artists, master craftsmen and ICH inheritors from 26 countries and regions including China, Egypt, Finland, Germany, Indonesia, Japan, Russia, South Korea, Slovakia and the United States.
    "Art is a universal language," said Hector Angulo, the deputy consul of Colombia told China Daily while introducing Colombian artist Charlie Serrano who presented a nature shot of the nation's symbolic and historical Lake of Guatavita by his photographs.
    Art, especially art related to nature, can provide great opportunity to create relationships between countries and people. And it is the best way to reflect about the environment and thus to call for global cooperation in its protection, said Angulo. He noted that Colombia has been putting great efforts in its ICH and biodiversity protection while fighting climate change, which he believed is an issue for all the people around the world to work on.
    Following the art show's launching ceremony, the 11th International (Shanghai) Intangible Cultural Heritage Protection Forum was held at the Shanghai Art & Design Academy. Focusing on international cooperation and national expression of intangible cultural heritage, representatives from government bodies, artists and industry experts from over 10 countries and regions shared their own experience in ICH protection by real case studies.
    Shahbaz Khan, director and representative of the UNESCO Multisectoral Regional Office for East Asia, spoke highly of the Lists and Register under the 2003 Convention for the Safeguarding of the ICH. "These lists provide global recognition and visibility to diverse cultural expressions, thereby promoting their appreciation and understanding among the global community."
    As of today, there are in total 676 ICH elements in five regions and 140 countries around the world recognized in the Convention's Lists and Register, Khan told China Daily. Among all the elements, China has the most — 43, including the latest "traditional tea processing techniques and associated social practices in China" inscribed on the list at the end of last year.
    "As a city that boasts a long history compounded classic and modern, eastern and western characters, Shanghai has special cultural expressions," said Xiao Yeying, deputy director of Shanghai Municipal Administration of Culture and Tourism. To date, Shanghai is home to 251 municipal-level ICH items and 623 ICH inheritors, such as the Shanghai Opera, wood carving, Yu Garden Lantern Festival and Jiangnan Sizhu (a traditional stringed instrument from south of the Yangtze River), according to Xiao.
    
    
