	Li emphasizes value of modern industry system
	2023-05-19 00:00
    Premier calls for sustained economic recovery during visit to Shandong
    Premier Li Qiang has underlined the importance of accelerating the construction of a modern industrial system underpinned by the real economy, and adopting more targeted measures to expand domestic needs while stabilizing external demand, in an effort to sustain economic recovery and growth.
    Li made the remarks during a fact-finding trip to Shandong province from Wednesday to Thursday.
    It is important to boost confidence in the country's development and focus on concrete actions to offset the impact of various kinds of uncertainties, he said, urging efforts to promote the high-end, smart and green development of manufacturing industries for the high-quality development of the real economy.
    While presiding over a symposium at the end of the trip, Li stressed efforts are needed to guide and create demand with high-quality supply, foster more consumption growth areas and develop new types of consumption.
    He emphasized the need to combine the expansion of domestic demand with the improvement of people's livelihoods, saying that solid efforts need to be made to advance projects related to building urban and rural infrastructure, and public services.
    Li urged speeding up the development of new forms and models of foreign trade and the use of all means necessary to stabilize market share in international markets.
    Attention should be focused on preventing and defusing major risks in key areas to create a favorable environment for economic development, he added.
    During his visit to electroacoustic components manufacturer Goertek Inc, and leading Chinese heavy truck and component manufacturer Weichai Group, the premier stressed the need to vigorously develop advanced manufacturing clusters.
    He urged efforts to coordinate the transformation and upgrading of traditional industries with the cultivation of emerging industries with strategic importance.
    At an automobile sales market, Li called for more efforts to refine policies related to the purchase and use of new energy vehicles, and to speed up the building of charging piles and other facilities to further unleash consumption potential.
    In the coastal city of Qingdao, Li visited the China-Shanghai Cooperation Organization Local Economic and Trade Cooperation Demonstration Area. While there he urged efforts to strengthen resource integration and complementary advantages to foster competitiveness and achieve mutual benefits.
    At Chinese household appliance manufacturers Haier Group and Hisense Group, the premier expressed his desire for enterprises to cater to consumer needs, engage in personalized customization and create more competitive products to further explore domestic and overseas markets.
    
