https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202306/09/WS64827c88a31033ad3f7bb549.html
	2023-06-09 09:44
	Pearson books for growth on going-global trend
    Pearson Education, a leading global learning company, has accelerated its China expansion in language-learning and English-language assessments for Chinese enterprises going global amid rising demand for international education since the beginning of this year.
    Pearson recently opened its new headquarters in Beijing for the Chinese market as it continues to build its language-learning businesses, to provide more opportunities to Chinese learners and enterprises.
    During his visit to Beijing, Gio Giovannelli, president of Pearson English Language Learning, said: "The China market has always been an important part of Pearson's global landscape. We are full of confidence and expectations for the long-term development of our business in China."
    The company, invested with its accumulated advantages in education and products, will continue to empower the progress of individuals and enterprises and support the globalization of Chinese companies, said Giovannelli.
    Through this diverse and integrated ecosystem, Pearson aims to support Chinese companies both domestically and on a global scale, said the company.
    As a strong foundation for employees to advance in their future careers, language learning is closely related to many other interpersonal skills, such as problem-solving, leadership and teamwork. According to Pearson's Skills Outlook, in non-English-speaking countries, 70 percent to 80 percent of interviewees said English was key to receiving a job or promotion.
    For enterprises, language learning and the values it brings are key factors for business success in today's globalized business environment, according to the company's research.
    In the Chinese market, Pearson has offered skills solutions including diversified English learning and assessment products that provide enterprises with English learning services, like analysis, learning, certifications and mobility.
    For example, Pearson is exploring how Mondly, an online language-learning platform of about 40 languages that the company acquired recently, can meet the needs of Chinese enterprises to improve their employees' language skills.
    "Language skills are a key requirement for people in China to be employable by Chinese companies. They can go to countries and regions participating in the Belt and Road Initiative and across the world because English has become ubiquitous for companies," Giovannelli said.
    "If you work in electric vehicles or any big sector, English proficiency is not only important if you live in China but also for Chinese companies that are growing overseas," he added.
    Thanks to the surging demand for overseas education and more employment opportunities since the beginning of this year, Pearson has seen strong growth in its assessment sector, particularly the Pearson Test of English. The test takes on average 1-2 days to receive results and is recognized by thousands of universities across the world as well as governments including Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and Canada.
    Last year, global growth for the PTE was 90 percent year-on-year. The company rolled out an official Chinese website for the PTE and expanded its reach on local social platforms, such as Little Red Book, to better serve its customers.
