	PhD student extols rise of self-driving cars
	2023-05-19 00:00
    
    The future of AI and autonomous driving is exciting, and people should harness its combined power to create an inclusive, sustainable and prosperous future for all, according to Minh Thao Chan, an international student at Tsinghua University.
    As a doctoral student in electronic engineering specializing in autonomous driving, he has witnessed the transformation of the AI landscape in China and is inspired by its passion, dedication and collaboration.
    "Imagine a street in Beijing teeming with cars, pedestrians and cyclists, along which an autonomous vehicle moves gracefully, navigating the labyrinth of traffic, making split-second decisions with precision and accuracy," he said at Vision China on Thursday night.
    This would be a sight to behold and symbolizes AI's potential to create a future where traffic jams are a memory and streets are safer, more efficient and environmentally friendly, he said, adding that it's a future that China is on the cusp of realizing.
    When Thao Chan arrived in China from France in 2016, electric vehicles were just being introduced. By 2018, most taxis were electric, and in the last three years, autonomous vehicles have gone through trials at test centers and, more recently, on roads in Shanghai and Shenzhen, Guangdong province.
    As more people embrace the potential of autonomous driving, these vehicles are becoming integral parts of the urban fabric, transforming how we live, work and play.
    Thao Chan used the example of a visually impaired woman in Beijing to explain the power of AI and autonomous driving to change lives.
    For most of her life, she relied on others for mobility, but the arrival of autonomous vehicles granted her newfound independence. She is now able to order a self-driving car and go wherever she desires.
    However, he said that as people explore the potential of AI and autonomous driving, they must remain mindful of the challenges they present.
    Data privacy, cybersecurity and ethical considerations must be addressed, and it is the collective responsibility of researchers, policymakers and citizens to ensure that AI technology remains safe.
    "We have an unparalleled opportunity to shape a world that is more intelligent, more connected and more compassionate," he said.
    "Together, we can forge a new era of transportation and mobility. Together, we can build a future where technology serves not just as a tool, but as a force for good, improving lives and fostering greater understanding, connection and collaboration across the globe."
    
    
    
