https://epaper.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202306/10/WS6483cd16a3106e73106c454a.html
	2023-06-10 00:00
	Roundup
    
    More than 10 million visitors arrived in Hong Kong in the first five months of this year, signaling a positive outlook for tourism recovery in the second half of 2023, the Hong Kong Tourism Board said last week. In May, the number of visitors from the Chinese mainland and Southeast Asia has recovered to more than 60 percent of the pre-pandemic level, HKTB data showed. More mainland tourists took the high-speed rail link to enter Hong Kong, with 20 percent opting for the train service.
    North China's Shanxi province is building a museum dedicated to showcasing the remarkable relics of Longshan Culture, a late Neolithic civilization in the middle and lower reaches of the Yellow River. The 12-hectare museum construction based on the Taosi relic site, which dates back about 4,500 to 3,900 years, is located in Taosi village in Xiangfen county. It is expected to be completed by the end of October. The main exhibition hall of the museum will be used for cultural relics display, collection and archaeological experiments, among others.
    China Southern Airlines on Wednesday inaugurated a new direct flight service linking London and Beijing. The new route operates one flight daily, departing from Heathrow Airport at 10:30 pm local time and landing at Beijing Daxing International Airport after approximately 10 hours of flying. Upon arrival at Daxing airport, passengers can connect with flights to various cities in China, such as Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Xiamen, Chongqing and Changsha, as well as international destinations like Tokyo, Osaka, Tashkent and more.
    In collaboration with online travel agency Ctrip, Tianjin Airlines has launched combined air-rail transport products targeting passengers in 12 nearby cities, offering an airline ticket discount worth 50 yuan ($7). Passengers can buy combined tickets on the Ctrip app after entering their departure places and destinations. Such services will be available on the airline's app and its WeChat mini program at the end of June.
    CRRC Tangshan, a major Chinese high-speed train manufacturer, has produced the first new-energy light rail train for Argentina, which is the first export project for such trains from China. The ceremony marking the completion of the train was held on Tuesday in Tangshan, North China's Hebei province. The six-axle articulated train runs at a maximum speed of 60 kilometers per hour with a flexible passenger capacity ranging from 72 to 388.
    Andrew Gravett, executive pastry chef of The Langham, London, brought a traditional afternoon tea experience to four Langham-branded hotels in Hong Kong, Shanghai, Shenzhen of Guangdong province and Hefei of Anhui province in June. Traditional English afternoon tea will be available till July 16 in these four hotels.
    Xinhua - China Daily
    
    
    
    
    
    
