https://epaper.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202306/10/WS6483cd13a3106e73106c4548.html
	2023-06-10 00:00
	Six decades of service marked by luxury hotel
    
    Mandarin Oriental Hong Kong is celebrating its 60th anniversary with a string of special events and new initiatives lined up throughout 2023.
    The yearlong celebrations commenced during Chinese New Year with the unveiling of The Mandarin at 60 Exhibit, which is a permanent historical archive located in the hotel's East Lobby for public viewing.
    "We are delighted to be celebrating our 60th anniversary this year in the heart of Hong Kong. There is no better time to rediscover or revisit your favorite city, and we very much await the return of our guests from all around the world to be a part of our milestone celebration all year around," said Amanda Hyndman, general manager of Mandarin Oriental Hong Kong and area vice-president of operations at Mandarin Oriental.
    In celebration of its 60th anniversary, Mandarin Oriental Hong Kong has launched an exclusive two-night consecutive stay special offer in the club room or suite categories. The special offering is valid until Oct 31 and subject to availability, according to a hotel statement.
    Honoring the hotel's Chinese heritage and original design, the Mandarin Spa will be launching new brand partnerships and bespoke treatments by 111SKIN and Oskia.
    Throughout this celebratory year, guests can choose from a roster of wellness and healing practitioners including hypnotherapists, reflexologists, facial acupuncturists and holistic sound therapists.
    Home to nine individually unique restaurants and bars, of which two boast Michelin stars, the hotel offers guests and visitors a calendar of culinary adventures from internationally acclaimed chefs from its sister properties.
    Mandarin Grill + Bar has been long renowned as Hong Kong's favorite dining room and has retained its Michelin star since 2009. The three chefs — Antonio Guida from Mandarin Oriental Milan restaurant Seta, Alain Roux from Mandarin Oriental Bangkok restaurant Le Normandie, and Deiniol Pritchard from Mandarin Oriental Hyde Park London restaurant Dinner by Heston Blumenthal — were invited to present their exceptional dishes during May, July and September respectively.
    Man Wah, one of the hotel's signature Michelin-starred restaurants, ushered in a new era of Cantonese fine dining when it reopened in 2021. In October, Chef Fei, one of China's most renowned chefs, will curate a seasonal menu featuring classic Cantonese dishes from his eponymous restaurants in Guangzhou and Shenzhen.
    Another much-anticipated move in October is the 60th Anniversary Gala, according to the hotel.
    A commemorative collection of the hotel's 60th anniversary china-ware is available for retail as well as on the hotel's online shop. Originally designed by a veteran Hong Kong designer, Alan Chan, the iconic print of Mandarin Oriental teahouse has been synonymous with the unique packaging of the Mandarin Oriental Cake Shop since 2006.
    "In celebration of its 60th anniversary, the hotel has launched the 'Giving Back to Hong Kong' philanthropic campaign and partnered with local charities," said an executive of the hotel.
    "Our colleagues have delivered almost 5,000 hours of community services since the beginning of the campaign and have pledged a further 17,000 hours in celebration of the upcoming 60th anniversary."
    
    
    
