https://epaper.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202306/09/WS64827c3ca3106e73106c451e.html
	2023-06-09 09:43
	What they say
    
    Multiculturalism encompasses a variety of beliefs, languages, customs, ethnic groups, genders, classes, and so on, and its future lies in embracing integration rather than confrontation.
    The central government's proposition to build a strong cultural power is grounded in the recognition of the need for a renewed and comprehensive understanding of Chinese culture, which is important for the future growth of the nation, and also presents an opportunity for us to reassess and re-examine Chinese culture.
    We ought to leverage the diverse cultural resources in the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area to develop a cultural system with distinct Chinese characteristics, providing a foundation for advancing Chinese culture to a new phase where "the whole world is one family".
    chairman of Chinese Folk Literature and Art Association Hong Kong branch
    I was born in Chengdu, Sichuan province and grew up in Hong Kong's Tiu Keng Leng before moving to Taiwan. I returned to Shanghai after that. I have never felt that I was in a strange land no matter where I have been in China over the years since there is no language barrier. Even in the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region and the Tibet autonomous region, homes to different ethnic minorities, I still feel close to the local people. The 5,000-year-old Chinese culture brings all Chinese from every corner of the world together.
    honorary professor of Macao Polytechnic University and former dean of the College of Social Sciences of the Chinese Culture University in Taiwan
    The development of the traditional culture of South China, also known as Lingnan culture, is an exchange process among people of different origins and different cultures. The development of the GBA is no different. Though the cultures of the three regions (Hong Kong, Macao and Guangdong) may be slightly different due to historical reasons, people from these regions are all part of the Lingnan culture. With the same origins and roots, we should strive to promote cultural integration within the GBA and bonding among the people to put into action General Secretary Xi Jinping's instructions to support Hong Kong and Macao as they further integrate into the country, thereby further consolidating the sense of community within the Chinese nation.
    secretary of the Party Committee of Sun Yat-sen University in Guangzhou and head of the Institute for the Study of Lingnan Culture at SYSU
    Openness, compatibility, innovation, and creativity are not only characteristics embodied in the living practices and lifestyles of GBA residents. They are also part of their values, which are fundamental to the cultural identity of the region. These values have been internalized within the cultural psyche of the region's residents and are reflected in various creative expressions.
    professor in the College of Liberal Arts at Jinan University and chairman of the Guangdong Writers Association
    Flourishing within the modern civilization of the Chinese nation is a new cultural mission, which has been taken on by talents from the GBA. I believe the sub-forum will serve as a valuable platform to promote Hong Kong's cultural integration with the rest of the GBA, strengthen the city's role as a cultural exchange hub within the region, and also increase the glamour of the Pearl of the Orient, which has rich Eastern and Western cultural heritages.
    advisor of liberal arts at Hong Kong Arts Development Council and chairman of Federation of Hong Kong Writers
    Macao not only actively embraces traditional Chinese culture and protects its inheritance, but also makes an outstanding contribution to early Sino-Western cultural exchanges.
    After the city returned to the motherland, various sectors of the society and local government made full efforts to explore Macao's rich historical and cultural resources, and promoted traditional Chinese culture in international cultural exchanges, especially cultural exchanges and cooperation with Portuguese-speaking countries. These efforts have achieved significant results. It is believed that Macao can play a key role in shaping the cultural and humanistic endeavors of the GBA and promote mutual learning between civilizations.
    member of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference and president of Administrative Committee of Macao Foundation
