	Xi suggests four principles for building China-Central Asia community
	2023-05-19 14:48
    President Xi Jinping proposed on Friday four principles of mutual assistance, common development, universal security and everlasting friendship on how to build a China-Central Asia community with a shared future.
    In a keynote speech when chairing the China-Central Asia Summit in Xi'an, Shaanxi province, Xi recalled the leaders' joint announcement of building a China-Central Asia community with a shared future last year.
    It was a historic choice made for the fundamental interests and bright future of the peoples in the new era, he said.
    In terms of mutual assistance, Xi said it is important to deepen strategic mutual trust, and always give each other unequivocal and strong support on issues concerning a country's core interests such as sovereignty, independence, national dignity, and long-term development.
    The countries should work together to ensure that their community features mutual assistance, solidarity, and mutual trust, he said.
    For common development, Xi said it is important to continue to set the pace for Belt and Road cooperation and deliver on the Global Development Initiative.
    The countries should fully unlock their potentials in traditional areas of cooperation such as economy, trade, industrial capacity, energy and transportation, he said.
    Xi also called on the countries to forge new drivers of growth in finance, agriculture, poverty reduction, green and low-carbon development, medical service, health, and digital innovation.
    He stressed efforts to work together to ensure that their community features win-win cooperation and common progress.
    Speaking of universal security, the president said it is important to act on the Global Security Initiative, and stand firm against external attempts to interfere in domestic affairs of regional countries or instigate color revolutions.
    The countries should remain zero-tolerant to the three forces of terrorism, separatism and extremism, and strive to resolve security conundrums in the region, he said.
    Xi said that it is important for the countries to work together to ensure that their community features no-conflict and enduring peace.
    For everlasting friendship, Xi said it is important to implement the Global Civilization Initiative, carry forward the countries' traditional friendship, and enhance people-to-people exchanges.
    The countries should do more to share their experience in governance, deepen cultural mutual learning, increase mutual understanding, and cement the foundation of the everlasting friendship between the Chinese and Central Asian peoples, he said.
    Xi also called on the countries to work together to ensure that their community features close affinity and shared conviction.
